[audio playing...]
What do you associate your local train
station with? Going to and from work?
Joe wanted to meet up with friends, or
maybe going to watch your local football
club for the weekend. in Kharkiv,
hundreds of 1000s of people lived
underground in the metro station for
over half a year. I managed to leave the
city with my children, but we were only
one step away from sleeping on the
station's marble floor and winter. Do
you remember this cartoon, Teenage
Mutant Ninja Turtles and how they lived
in sewers. It was like this. Some kids
didn't see the sun in the sky for weeks.
But it was also well organized. With
spaces for food, water, charging mobile
phones at the Madison. The Revolution of
Dignity taught us as a civic society how
to mobilize. And if you didn't have
this, I'm sorry, but let's rehearsal, we
would have been in a much worse place.
But how to introduce the music concerts.
The Tula Nicola yeska, and two
colleagues at heart give Music Fest
created in the metro station. The
bravery of those artists cannot be
measured.
[audio playing...]
It was clear that we couldn't go ahead
with a hike. If music first as
originally planned in March, it was
obvious. But for us as organizers, we
had a very big way that we must create
some kind of music event. We saw a big
need in the people. And really, this
concert was made to unite people because
they were in a really bad shape. The
safest and only place we could actually
do the concert in that period was the
metro station. And we chose to call it
the concert between explosions. Because
it was literally like this huge
explosions before the concert during the
concert. And often. It was obviously the
only musicians who could participate
with those who stayed in high gear. But
it was more complicated than that. For a
lot of people. Fear is paralyzing. And
it was hard to predict who would be able
to play in that moment. found five
musicians and it was enough because it
made up the string quintet. Since love
criteria anchor and all who proceed on
violin to Jana to convey all the nice
crotch and stuff on cello and said he
decoded from double bass. One young
composer with a dimmer bottle, made the
musical scores grating adaptation for
the five musicians. And we chose famous
Ukrainian songs were all people know the
melodies. At the beginning of the
concert, the president of HUD give Music
Fest and now despite the war, we are
starting our festival. Our mayor and the
head of Harkey regional military
administration were both there. And I
thought they would live up to five
minutes. But they stayed for the whole
concert. It was very important
for the audience, it was actually the
first cultural event in the city. Before
that, it was totally suffering. Pain.
horrible, terrible situation. It was the
first event to remind us of peace. Like
it was before. During the concert, it
was visible have people transformed. You
could see this changes in how we started
to smile when musicians started playing
new ticket visitors what a moonlight
night. Very famous very few
people started to sing the song together
even if they didn't have voice singing
they joined in. And in the end, the team
performed prayer for Ukraine. It's 19th
century quite well known melody with the
words
God save Ukraine. And it was a very
emotional end to the concert.
This concert inspired a lot of people to
start doing different projects,
collaborations, creations working
together music festivals, art
exhibitions, joint projects, with kids
who continue to live in the Metro State.
Because before this, people were in a
kind of antibiotic state. It was like a
light switch that went gone.
[audio playing...]